Apply the new design to the guidebook (#267)
w3c/Guide: process/predicting-milestones.md

The first set of milestones are drawn up before work starts, and put in an initial charter. In this phase, an idea is firmed up from "hey we could do this" to a fully fledged, chartered Working Group. If the work is entirely new, or would take an existing group in a radical new direction, the Process Document [requires](/policies/process/#WGCharterDevelopment) that Advance Notice be sent to the AC. Often, an initial draft charter is sent along with this notice (but this is not required). The aim here is to avoid surprises, to quickly gather brainstorming-type feedback, and to get buy-in on the proposed direction from likely members of the eventual Working Group.

> Time: Advance Notice
: There is no set period for Advance Notice, but four weeks is a typical minimum period.
{:.time}

>Tips: Advance Notice

> : When developing materials for and advance notice, try to strike a balance between fast (but overly sketchy and vague) and thorough (but slow, maybe over-detailed or over-constraining).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: When developing materials for an advance notice, try to strike a balance between fast (but overly sketchy and vague) and thorough (but slow, maybe over-detailed or over-constraining).
```

>
  If work has been prepared beforehand in a Community group, or formalizes existing, industry standard practices, then an Advance Notice might be skipped.
 {:.tip}

The results from Advance Notice may indicate broad consensus on the proposed direction (if so, proceed rapidly to a formal charter review). Or they may indicate disagreement on the best direction forward (in which case, iterate). Some commentors may want a fast development of an initial version, while others may want a fully fledged solution.

> Tip: Advance Notice Feedback

> : If feedback indicates disagreement on scope, consider proposing both a fast initial version *and* a requirements gathering and drafting item for a full-featured second version. This will help avoid delays due to disagreements on scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: If feedback indicates disagreement on scope, consider proposing both a fast initial version *and* a requirements gathering and drafting item for a full-featured second version. This can help avoid delays due to disagreements on scope.
```

Once review comments from W3M have been incorporated into the charter, it is [sent to the AC for review](/policies/process/#CharterReview).

> Time: AC review
: There is no set period for AC review, but four weeks is a typical minimum period followed by two to four weeks to incorporate feedback and to make the decision to charter the proposed Working Group.
{:.time}

>Tips: AC review
: Respond to each review comment as it arrives, rather than waiting for the review period to end. Others may have similar concerns, so addressing them early avoids needless repeat comments.
>

>   Keep the proposed charter unchanged (so the AC has a stable document to review) but make a copy at a different location and incorporate comments (so commentors can see the resolution of their issues in-place).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Keep the proposed charter unchanged (so the AC has a stable document to review) but make a copy at a different location and incorporate comments (so commenters can see the resolution of their issues in-place).
```

> Once the decision to start the Working Group has been communicated to the AC, participants can join. This may take some time, particularly if participants need to perform a legal review of the work items (for example, to review their patent portfolio in light of the [W3C Royalty-Free commitment](/policies/patent-policy/#sec-Requirements)). In the case of a new group, some or all of the participants may be unfamiliar with W3C processes, tools (such as IRC, phone conferencing, issue tracking, version control). The Chair and Staff Contact take a lead role in getting a new group up to productive speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the decision to start the Working Group has been communicated to the AC, participants can join. This may take some time, particularly if participants need to perform a legal review of the work items (for example, to review their patent portfolio in light of the [W3C Royalty-Free commitment](/policies/patent-policy/#sec-Requirements)). In the case of a new group, some or all of the participants may be unfamiliar with W3C processes and tools (such as IRC, phone conferencing, issue tracking, version control). The Chair and Staff Contact take a lead role in getting a new group up to productive speed.
```

> Time: WG startup

> :  There is no set period until a Group starts to become productive. Experienced participants with a capable Chair and Team Contact, working on a new version of an existing specification can be productive immediately. A new group with participants new to W3C, working in a new area which is rife with Intellectual property concerns, may take several months to become productive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  There is no set period after which a Group becomes productive. Experienced participants with a capable Chair and Team Contact, working on a new version of an existing specification, can be productive immediately. A new group with participants new to W3C, working in a new area which is rife with intellectual property concerns, may take several months to become productive.
```

Once all open issues are closed (or deferred to the next version) and the group believes the document is stable enough for wide review, a Working Draft can be published for wide review. Other Groups, expecially those with formal dependencies, are invired to review. External Groups with whom the Working group has an ongoing liaison should also be invited to review.

> Time: Wide Review Duration

> : The minimum duration for the Wide Review comment period should be 4 weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The minimum duration for the Wide Review comment period is 4 weeks.
```

{:.time}

> Tips: Wide Review Duration

> : 'Horizontal' groups that review many specifications (for example, WAI P&amp;F and I18n Core) may, because of their workload, need longer than the minimum period.

Reviewer: [WAI P&amp;F](https://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/) is defunct. This example should be replaced (and if an abbreviation or shortname is used, the long name should also be included).

```suggestion
: 'Horizontal' groups that review many specifications (for example, WAI P&amp;F, and [Internationalization Working Group (i18n-core)](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/i18n-core/)) may, because of their workload, need longer than the minimum period.
```

> Each Candidate Recommendation review comment must be documented, the changes made (if any) and rationale for the change documented, and the agreement or disagreement of the reviewer to the change also documented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Candidate Recommendation review comment must be documented; the changes (if any) made and their rationale documented; and the agreement or disagreement by the reviewer to the change also documented.
```

  If a Group is expected to comment and has not done so, ask if they need more time. This encourages them to either make their comments on time, or ask for an extension of known duration. Also ask that, if they have no comments, they send an explicit 'no comments' message. This helps 'show wide review' in the following Transition call, and differentiates groups whose review is complete from groups which are late.
>

>   If review comments are vague, ask for clarification or for concrete specification text which would satisfy the comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If review comments are vague, ask for clarification or for concrete specification text which would satisfy the commenter.
```

> Publication of a Candidate Recommendation triggers an Exclusion period on all features which were not in the previous First Public Working Draft (or previous Candidate Recommendation, if there was one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publication of a Candidate Recommendation triggers an Exclusion period on all features which were not in the preceding First Public Working Draft (or previous Candidate Recommendation, if there was one).
```

1. meeting the CR exit criteria (which leads to Proposed Recommendation), or

> 2. dropping features which were not marked as 'at risk', or adding new features as a result of implementer feedback (which leads to another Candidate Recommendation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. dropping features which were not marked as 'at risk', or adding new features as a result of implementer feedback (either of which leads to another Candidate Recommendation).
```

> Time: Post-CR Candidate Recommendation Duration
: The minimum duration for the Candidate Recommendation comment period is 28 days.
>
  Announcement of an open exclusion period, immediately after publication of Candidate Recommendation, triggers an exclusion period of 60 days.
{:.time}

> Tips: Avoiding or minimizing repeating CR publications
: Identify likely 'at risk' features by looking at implementation reports before entering CR.
>

>   If in doubt, leave a feature in the spec and mark it 'at risk'. You can drop it without having another LC. Adding it back in afterwards, however, or dropping it without having identified it as 'at risk', triggers another Candidate Recommendation.

Reviewer: I *think* Last Calls have been deprecated. Maybe `another CR` communicates what was meant?
```suggestion
  If in doubt, leave a feature in the spec and mark it 'at risk'. You can drop it without having another CR. Adding it back in afterwards, however, or dropping it without having identified it as 'at risk', triggers another Candidate Recommendation.
```

Following a successful transition call where the CR exit criteria were demonstrated to have been met, the next stage is Proposed Recommendation. This review period is not expected to raise substantive technical issues.

> Time: PR Duration

> : The minimum duration for the PR review period is [four weeks](/policies/process/#rec-pr), followed by two weeks for a W3C's decision. If the review period spans the July/August or December holiday periods, more time is typically added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The minimum duration for the PR review period is [four weeks](/policies/process/#rec-pr), followed by two weeks for a W3C decision. If the review period spans the July/August or December holiday periods, more time is typically added.
```

{:.time}

> Tips: Minimising delay during PR

> : Personally contact the AC representative for each organization on the group (cc'ing the Group member) to remind them of the review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Personally contact the AC representative for each organization on the group (CCing the Group member) to remind them of the review.
```
